[bold]
	RISK FACTORS:[/bold]
Apple Inc. | 2021 Form 10-K | 8 The Company depends on component and product manufacturing and logistical services provided by outsourcing partners, many of which are located outside of the U. S. Substantially all of the Company’ s manufacturing is performed in whole or in part by outsourcing partners located primarily in Asia.

Apple Inc. | 2021 Form 10-K | 14 The Company’ s business is subject to a variety of U. S. and international laws, rules, policies and other obligations regarding data protection.

Apple Inc. | 2021 Form 10-K | 16 General RisksThe price of the Company’ s stock is subject to volatility.

To the extent the COVID-19 pandemic adversely affects the Company’ s business, results of operations, financial condition and stock price, it may also have the effect of heightening many of the other risks described in this Part I, Item 1A of this Form 10-K. Macroeconomic and Industry RisksThe Company’ s operations and performance depend significantly on global and regional economic conditions and adverse economic conditions can materially adversely affect the Company’ s business, results of operations and financial condition.

Apple Inc. | 2021 Form 10-K | 6 In addition to an adverse impact on demand for the Company’ s products, uncertainty about, or a decline in, global or regional economic conditions can have a significant impact on the Company’ s suppliers, contract manufacturers, logistics providers, distributors, cellular network carriers and other channel partners.

Apple Inc. | 2021 Form 10-K | 7 Global markets for the Company’ s products and services are highly competitive and subject to rapid technological change, and the Company may be unable to compete effectively in these markets.

Apple Inc. | 2021 Form 10-K | 9 The Company’ s products and services may be affected from time to time by design and manufacturing defects that could materially adversely affect the Company’ s business and result in harm to the Company’ s reputation.

Apple Inc. | 2021 Form 10-K | 10 The Company’ s minority market share in the global smartphone, personal computer and tablet markets can make developers less inclined to develop or upgrade software for the Company’ s products and more inclined to devote their resources to developing and upgrading software for competitors’ products with larger market share.

Apple Inc. | 2021 Form 10-K | 11 The Company has invested and will continue to invest in programs to enhance reseller sales, including staffing selected resellers’ stores with Company employees and contractors, and improving product placement displays.

Apple Inc. | 2021 Form 10-K | 15 The weakening of foreign currencies relative to the U. S. dollar adversely affects the U. S. dollar value of the Company’ s foreign currency–denominated sales and earnings, and generally leads the Company to raise international pricing, potentially reducing demand for the Company’ s products.

Apple Inc. | 2021 Form 10-K | 13 The outcome of litigation or government investigations is inherently uncertain.
[bold]
	DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS:[/bold]
Services net sales also include amortization of the deferred value of services bundled in the sales price of certain products. iPhoneiPhone net sales increased during 2021 compared to 2020 due primarily to higher net sales from the Company’ s new iPhone models launched in the first quarter and fourth quarter of 2021 and a favorable mix of iPhone sales.

The movement of foreign currencies in Europe relative to the U. S. dollar had a net favorable impact on Europe net sales during 2021.

The strength of the Chinese renminbi relative to the U. S. dollar had a favorable impact on Greater China net sales during 2021.

The movement of foreign currencies in the Rest of Asia Pacific relative to the U. S. dollar had a favorable impact on Rest of Asia Pacific net sales during 2021.

Uncertain Tax PositionsThe Company is subject to income taxes in the U. S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions.

Other Purchase ObligationsThe Company’ s other purchase obligations primarily consist of noncancelable obligations to acquire capital assets, including product tooling and manufacturing process equipment, and noncancelable obligations related to advertising, content creation and Internet and telecommunications services.

